Coming up. We've spent thousands of dollars and over a decade refining the perfect home media setup today
we get nostalgic and share what worked and
What really didn't I'm Chris and I'm Alex and this is self-hosted 23
over the years you and I have
Inadvertently converged on two or three different things in our lives
The finer things in life. I might say, you know, we both have the perfect car the Volkswagen Golf
we both have the same laptop as of last week and also
The perfect media player the Nvidia shield TV and I thought it would be fun today
To walk the audience through both of our rationales for ending up at the Nvidia shield
Completely separately from one another. I think the timing is perfect
because I just recently went through an old stash of hardware and
Pulled out a bunch of old gear that over the years I used for my media center setups
So my memory is fresh on this topic. It's been a long journey
And I also feel like this was one of those journeys
I am happy to have walked even though I tried a lot of things that didn't work out and I
Spent a lot of money on devices
But I think it ultimately led me to where I'm at now and I'm very happy with my media set up now, which I'm sure we'll get to
Unfortunately Chris failure is a prerequisite for me being happy with the current situation
You know
I have to fail a few times in order to be happy with what I've got because if I don't fail
I'll be sat here going. Well, that was too easy. I'm gonna go and try this other shiny thing over there instead
You know, I started thinking maybe that's why folks ask us why we like Plex so much
maybe if you've just come into it right now and don't have the historical context of where
Media centers that you could self-host came from it's easy to overlook what Plex has brought us
I mean, there's lots of solutions now, too
So that's not completely the reason but I wonder if by the end of this episode if maybe that's something worth reflecting on
If maybe that's something worth reflecting on I know I personally really started getting deep into this probably
mid-2000s
Oh, okay. I was a wee boy back then but
I I know for me the big like moment that stands out clearly where there's two products
I I tried multiple branches for a while. I tried commercial offerings open source offerings
What was your quote unquote first media player media server center thing?
My recollection was
I which was unusual for me at the time
Tried out windows media center. I went for it. I think I started I don't know if you recall this
But there was a media center edition of windows xp. I do. Yeah. Yeah, I think that I
Dipped the toes in around then I never actually used that one in anger. Although I do remember it
My first kind of playback device was win amp
And the reason I use win amp was because it had a detachable video window
So I had the whip the llama's ass bit at the top and then I had a component cable coming out of my graphics card
Going into my crt
Television and that was playing, you know
It's the first time I watched snatch and lock stock and so many classic movies that I absolutely adore to this day and family guy
I was watching season
One or two, you know, it was
You know, it was a while ago. I suppose my very first iteration like the alpha stage prototype model was
Just a machine. I think it ran plasma desktop with vlc and then a wireless keyboard that had a built-in trackpad
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, but that didn't have high spousal approval factor
Well, that's something i'm going to talk about throughout this because I mean i've i've had the same girlfriend and wife now since
2008 7 I should probably know that a long time
So she's been through a lot of this journey with me and before win amp. I was just using
Dvds into dvd players and video, you know vhs cassettes and that kind of stuff, you know, like a normal person
And then the internet came along and kind of changed the game for delivering music and then video
Kind of slowly caught up because the file sizes were a lot bigger and it was hard to get them
Um, so I started using handbrake to rip the dvds that I did have and just collated them in a folder, you know
With you know movie name and and whatever so I had a very small, you know
We're talking how many dvds a 15 year old kid have like a dozen
We're not talking a lot, you know, like I have a thousand movies on my server now
Which leads me to probably the next important milestone, which was buying the playstation 3 for me
And I bought this because of the promise it could run
Linux it was a blu-ray player that could run
Linux and that sounded cool to me. I was at uni. So I was I think I was 18 19 something like that
And uh, I I must have discovered you 11 years ago
Yeah, my playstation 3 installed linux video was pretty popular back in the day
Like back in the day 300 000 views on a video was pretty good
That was considered like a lot of views on youtube back then the dark ages
Yeah, and the great thing about the playstation 3 was it had support for dlna
So it could do some basic network browsing if I recall it wasn't very good though, right dlna
That's the acronym. I could never quite say right
But more importantly is it was initially the cheapest way to get a blu-ray player
There was just no better cheaper way to get a blu-ray player
No, I remember going into I think it was hmv in the middle of manchester and seeing some guys playing grand turismo
On this they had this huge like 90 inch tv on the wall and just being absolutely
Flawed by the quality of the graphics back then, you know, it was an xbox 360
ps3 kind of era so
We're going back a fair bit, you know 720p was considered really good quality
Yep
Did you ever get your hands on an xbox the original xbox?
I actually had an original xbox when it was actually just a games console
But obviously later on people modded it to run xbmc, but we'll come on to that. So
My next system was a core 2 duo. I built my first standalone dedicated home theater pc
I went to aria pc in manchester. I actually got a speeding ticket that day because I was so excited to go buy this computer
Right if anybody's in manchester right by the manchester city football stadium on that little duo carriageway
Anyway, I went there and I bought this super cheap case because I hadn't really figured that the case was important yet
I bought the absolute cheapest components. I could like I was I was a student
So every absolutely every penny counted just to get a speeding ticket of like 60 quid was a bit annoying
It was fine. It was hot. It was loud
But it meant that my student laptop was no longer pulling double duty as my main
Media playback device. And so finally I had two devices. Was it a pizza box style case, you know that
That more horizontal style pc case because I that went around that era is when I built one too that
It wasn't a high-end media center pc case, but I seem to recall
It was essentially a pizza box style with a little window in the front for an ir blaster
That was an add-on. It did not come with but it had the window in case you installed one
Yeah, I I think it was an tech sure. Yeah and tech sounds right for me
That was the second case that I bought after I realized the cheapest one was just going to have really bad thermals
But it was the the first one was like a an amplifier. It was that kind of horizontal flat kind of sits underneath the crt
Monitor style and there was a couple of hard drives in there probably had like 500 gigabytes of storage, which was a lot
Back then
back then but I think one of the most important things that came
Came about around the time of the playstation 3 around the time of that kind of core 2 duo era
Was the proliferation of hdmi? Do you remember that that didn't used to be a thing?
Yeah
I struggled to try to get component on as many things as I could but when the era of hd came out
also the era of drm and hdcp and
Needing to send higher resolution things to the television and they needed a standard and so hdmi came out
And I had to upgrade
My hardware or the television and the receiver both did not support hdmi
Now I had you know for a while, of course started with coax then went to rca and then went to um
component
component road component as long as I could because you could technically get hd over component 720 at least and it was
Unencrypted so it was easy to copy and capture. Well my fancy pants 4k tv still has a component input
So really I mean technically you could have ridden that train until today
Yeah, yeah, especially if I could avoid hdcp
Dcp. Yeah, but I pretty quickly started getting hardware that had hdmi. The adoption was quick with that one and um,
my my
later devices that followed my vlc prototype
Then gave way to a pc. I think I reloaded that pc that had kde plasma
and uh vlc
I just I used that same hardware and then I put windows xp media center edition and then pretty quickly after that ended up going
Straight to windows 7. Do you remember that they had the windows media center remotes with a little icon in the middle?
Did you have those had one? Yeah. Yeah, of course you did. Well, I I got something special that didn't last very long
This is 2007
Linksys came out with extenders and this was a big deal. I remember those yes
Yes, I never bought one but they were just essentially appliance media center clients
And there were a couple of different types a couple of different vendors, but I thought linksys had the best and I had the dma
2200 which was a bad mama jamma because it was a dvd player
And a windows media extender
So I look at me right like i'll put that in the bedroom and i'll have a dvd player and a media player extender
That thing is huge. Yeah
But the other thing that was incredible about it back then
Is that it was one of the first devices of its kind that had 802 11n support
That was a big deal for streaming the hd. They had a smaller one too the dma 2100. I had one of those as well
But boy, did they just run unreliably they were poor performance and they disconnected frequently
I think it was one of my shorter lived experiments. I had a bad experience with the media center extenders as well
So the promise of a media center extender was you had this core
Windows media center running somewhere probably under your main tv in the lounge or wherever. Yep
I was even doing live tv capture to it as well
which the idea was then you could watch that live tv on these media extenders and then you have these extenders in your
Satellite rooms whatever they are, you know bedroom kitchen wherever
And it was supposedly a full-blown
Media center experience, you know, like you had on your primary system, but yeah, ask my wife. They uh, they weren't very good
No, they weren't very reliable. I use an xbox 360 in the bedroom to do that for quite some time, right?
It worked. That was the best media extender. I recall the xbox, but then you had to buy
Like a 300 xbox, yep, and it just was silly it was just silly
Around that same era. Do you know do you know what I replaced these with?
Because i'm not sure if you ever saw this box the boxy box. Did you ever see the boxy box?
I have that on my list. Yes
That was the box man. Oh boxy was so great boxy was a cross-platform home theater pc software with a 10 foot user interface
And it had a very big feature that nothing before it really had if I recall and it was automatic
Organization of your videos based on the metadata it could associate with them
And then it would build your library for you and it integrated in a bunch of online services
And it came with a pretty neat keyboard that I don't know if you recall had a you flipped it over
It had a full qwerty keyboard on the back of it and then you flip it to the other side
It was just kind of a simple keyboard. I think the boxy box was just five years too early
I don't think enough people really understood what it was capable of. I mean it was the first one that had a proper 1080p
10 foot user interface like you said
It scored all the goals that windows media center missed you could integrate internet television, you know
Like revision 3 and stuff like that. You could stream that directly into
The interface and it was it was great. Uh, the performance was
Yeah, the price was a little much but you know a lot of things we take for granted now like
Having only three or four buttons on our remotes
The boxy box was probably one of the first devices to do that because until then
You know, if you look at this linksys, uh box you mentioned a moment ago that had thing has like 50 buttons on it
And just having a d-pad enter and menu that that was crazy talk back then. Yeah
It made it until october 16th 2012 and then d-link discontinued it
But I loved it. It supported five one surround sound which a lot of boxes back then didn't it had a ton of codec support
You know, the thing was intel based. It had an atom cpu in it. Really? Yeah interesting. Yeah
It was clearly just ahead of its time, you know, there was the boxy software as well
But the boxy box really brought it all together. Yeah, it was really quite a beautiful thing
you know, most of these things look like a an amplifier or a
A vhs player whereas this thing was like a spaceship
The other first that I think the boxy box and boxy did was mobile remote control
So you not only had the nice simple remote control
But they had a first party ios app and tons of third-party android apps that were just remotes for your boxy box
That controlled it over wi-fi. That's table stakes now, but wasn't it iphone os back then probably. Yeah
I seem to recall so in this period it was it was just around the major recession. So like 2009. I just got made redundant
And I went to a charity store and I bought um the original xbox
This is when 20 quid was my entire like pocket money because I was unemployed. So I I mean
20 quid from the benefit people, you know, it was a rough time
Anyway, I bought this xbox thinking right i'm going to put xbmc on it
I'm going to be elite super hacker, you know, because I wasn't I wasn't a linux guy for several years after this still so
For me, this was following guides on forums and this this was how you did stuff back then
There weren't youtube tutorials really and there were several options on how you would mod or hack the xbox
Some of which included soldering some of which didn't and you had to pick which route you wanted to take
yeah, so I went to sold a free route and I cracked the case open and i'm sat there on my
Living room floor and I have they had these big long bolts that went they must have been about three or four inches
Because it was a big thick boy this this original xbox
And uh, the exposed power supplies inside and all the guides are like do not touch the capacitors. You will die
So I didn't touch the capacitors and I didn't die clearly because i'm talking to you now
And what I did do though was I dropped one of those screws. Oh, no
Into the power supply and it went
There goes your uh hard-earned hard-earned dollars boom right there just gone. So did you have to start over?
That was my weeks or months entertainment. No, I was it was that was toast. It was done. Which one in the bin
Yeah, you had to get a whole new one. Well, I couldn't afford to so I just stuck with what I had. Oh shoot
Oh, you were so close to a to a utopia
That was going to be my first time with xbmc as well. But alas I had to wait
Sometimes a guy never changes alex. This won't surprise you to learn that
I too attempted to mod it. I bailed and then went on ebay and just bought one that was pre-modded
Of course, you haven't changed a bit boy. Nope, I know I know, uh, but I loved it because not only could I save
All my games all my xbox games to the hard drive because I got one with a bigger hard drive
Which was great because they loaded way faster, but then it was just a menu option to launch the media center. So for a brief
period of time
I had like the perfect
Media center game box because it was legit actual xbox games and a very
Compelling media center interface, but I moved on because the xbox hardware really couldn't handle much beyond 480
And you could squeeze a little bit more but not much
And xbmc started moving to other platforms and then later became known as cody obviously. Yeah, it did so in 2011
That was the first time that I really remember loading up xbmc and it's sticking
I started playing around with all the skins like a on nox that was the first game that I played
I started playing around with all the skins like a on nox that was there
Experience 1080 I think was another one
And I was running this on my primary desktop by this point. I'd amalgamated, you know
I'd been very redundant. I had to sell some stuff to pay rent
I'd amalgamated everything back to one box again
And so that meant whenever I wanted to watch tv
I couldn't use my desktop and I didn't have a laptop either at that point another thing that I remember
Uh in roughly 2012 I found a project called vox commando and this let me use the xbox 360 connect
As a voice interface to do voice recognition to control xbmc
I've got a video on youtube which we'll put in the show notes. It's uh
I mean for 2012. I mean that's pretty cool. It's
It's a bit basic now, but yeah, it's it's not uncommon now, but that is a good point 2012. That was actually pretty impressive
speaking of old embarrassing videos i'll link a couple in the show notes because
What we're talking about right now was really a sweet spot that I entered where I discovered the joys of over the air hd television
and
Myth tv at the same time. Oh, yeah myth tv
Yes, and myth tv was a great application that could pull down all the tv listings and it just acted as a centralized
Pvr or a dvr I should say a digital video recorder
Well, that was one of the things that windows media center in particular was actually pretty good at yes
I had an external cable box. It had an infrared blaster with a little you know
3.5 mil jack on the end of it and it was pretty good
But myth tv was a linux thing
So obviously you were going to be all over that right and then what I would do
On the other end of that is by various means I would have xbmc around the house and then xbmc over the network would access
the myth recording centrally
And that's pretty much how I distributed my my live television for quite a while
Until I was just done with live tv over the next sort of five to seven years or so
There was this kind of graph where live tv suddenly became irrelevant and all that you cared about was streaming and youtube and your pre
cached content
Um was an interesting an interesting time now. I had this kind of
It was a bit of a hack
Because I was allergic to noise. I had my server under the stairs my desktop under the stairs. I had these cat 5
usb
Ethernet things that got my usb 2 keyboard and mouse inputs from upstairs to downstairs
And a 20 meter which is like 60 feet hdmi cable running up the side of the stairs with a two-way splitter so I could have
You know everything plugged in and still you and still play and everything in a remote room
So literally all I had in the in the room where my screen was was screen keyboard mouse
And that was it everything all the processing was done elsewhere
Were those cords through the wall or were they like running along the baseboard? Oh, I mean they were tacked along the
The skirting boards, of course the baseboards. Yeah. Yep
Of course. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, one of the things legitimately when uh, I moved into a house around this time is um,
I had them run conduit so I could run hdmi and stuff like that through the walls
It was it was a priority based on that experience
Very much. So this time too, it's tricky to remember but flash video was still really relevant for online services
Where are we with the iphones in 2012? What version was that like iphone 3gs or something probably? Yeah, and the flash battle was still raging
You know, I don't know if the famous steve jobs memo and flash had been written yet
And this was one of the issues the boxy box even struggled with the boxy box lacked flash support which made it
Ironically, not a very good online media machine 2012 was the iphone 4 by the way, just uh, just to clarify
Okay, okay, but also in 2012 the raspberry pi 1 was released. Wow
Did you ever use that? I really didn't seriously use the raspberry pies until the raspberry pi 3
Just not in the force power. I bought the mpeg 2 codec and I did a bit of work with sam nazarco who is the
Osmc which I think turned into open elec which I think is related to libre elec
I'm, not totally sure on the history there
All I know is that I was able to play on a 35 computer the genuine first one 1080p rips in xbmc
Mostly flawlessly. I mean it wasn't it wasn't totally perfect. There were some stutters but
But for that price, it was amazing. Really, you know speaking of um, these single board computers that we use today
I later after I moved on from the boxy box and the windows extenders
I ended up with a device that actually has heritage with the pine 64 today
Really? Yeah, and that's the popcorn hour media tank. Oh my god. I'd forgotten about popcorn hours
Yeah, totally. I never I never use one, but they they always looked super cool
Super cool. This is one of the devices. I just ended up cleaning out. Um, just a few weeks ago
So the popcorn hour a 100
Was just under 200
Very competitive price point for back then it was a small flat box
That would play
Every codec that had ever been invented
All the way up to 1080p
You would open up the top the top would use four screws the thumb screws would come off
The top lid would come off and it would fit a 3.5
Spinning rest hard drive inside of it that you could use for local media if you wanted to didn't have wi-fi
but it had ethernet had
Optical out hdmi out a couple of usb ports. You could have external storage as well if you'd like
And with the codec support
And the high res video support that it had and high bitrate support as well. So you could actually play blu-rays
Blu-rays it was probably my favorite
Box, like if I were to go back in time and I could only have one from my past
It would be the popcorn hour now
The creator of the popcorn hour that gentleman has gone on to do a bunch of other things including
he makes tiny little retro consoles that you can get to play nintendo games, but he also
Is um, I probably get the I didn't look it up for the show
But he's he's either the founder or the investor behind pine 64. Wow. It's a small world, isn't it?
Yeah, and it was it was wild to learn that because I love the popcorn hours and it gave me a little bit of understanding
Of why the pine folks perhaps have been as good as they are because they've got some real experience with small devices like this
You know these little popcorn hour media tanks
Also ran linux like a lot of these devices with the exception of the windows media extender stuff was all linux back then
So it was just tons of stuff for me to just dig into
And I ended up putting a couple of these popcorn hours around the house
And uh played off my central server as well as did some local media and they serve their purpose for a really long time
That's super cool
So my server at this point had moved from being just a a windows box
I i'd finally been able to have a linux server which was running unraid. I'd bought the sinology
Done that and sold it because it wasn't flexible enough
uh, and so I was running unraid on the server and um,
I read a post on the unraid forums about gpu pass-through and I was like
And I was like, oh
This sounds interesting
I could buy just a 50 pound graphics card shove it in my existing server and then have another instance of xbmc
Cool. I'll just run another 20 meter hdmi cable. Perfect job done
Except pci pass-through was a little more complicated than this guy made it seem
I would largely chalk the fact that i'm sat here talking to you now up to the fact that I wanted to do pci pass-through
Because I had to learn how to compile kernels and all sorts of crap. So
It was a bit complicated
But it worked, uh eventually anyway after probably about six months of trying
I ended up switching from unraid, uh, well not from unraid, but unraid was no longer the hypervisor. I had
Unraid virtualized under zen and then I was doing
Pci pass-through of an arch vm that I created that just booted straight into x and then that loaded xbmc
Immediately so there was no other graphical interface
And it worked pretty well for six months a year, whatever
But eventually it broke because it was a it was a bit of a hacky thing
And I kind of jumped on board with the xbox one train for a little while trying to think that that was going to be
The panacea, you know, it was a hypervisor based
Multi os box that was supposed to be the the savior, but it wasn't
Yeah
Yeah, I was I recall I I just hadn't really thought a lot about the server side of it
But it was hard to get really current packages that would support gpu decoding early on now. It's simple
You can do it on any os but back in the day
It was one of the reasons I ended up on arch was so that way I could install
Versions of server software that would have special gpu support and whatnot because you had to have the latest. Yeah
Totally. I mean docker's now largely made the base os irrelevant stuff like the plex container
Particularly the one from the linux server team supports gpu acceleration out of the box even in a linux linux container
So yeah, like like you say nowadays these kids don't even know they're born
It's so easy now. They're born with gpu acceleration in their hands. Yeah, no kidding
Did you ever jump on the chromecast train? I had a couple of chromecasts. I've never been a huge
fan of it
because I don't like
sending my video
Through a third party to then have it show up on my screen. Like I don't like having anything outside my land involved with it
but I honestly
Probably end up using it, you know
even still about once a month because sometimes it's just the simplest route to go and now that so many apps support it
Like plaques and whatnot. I can't help it. I can't help it. It's come to build into stuff now, but um
Early on I was a bit skeptical. I'll admit it. I was a bit skeptical of chromecast still here though still works still does a job
If you look at google products and things they support they really have done a good job
They've been good stewards of chromecast. They really have
I ended up discovering plex really early on
because I had a
Mac in my studio that ran final cut and I remember the developer emailed into the show saying hey i'm porting xbmc
To this thing. You should check it out
And I was like it's mac only. All right
I'll check it out because if I if I I might be wrong, but my it was mac only early on and then
It was a mac desktop app competing with apple's front row. Oh, wow. I
Totally forgotten front row. Jeez. Yeah, that thing was awful front row was really limited. Yeah, it was no good
So I was like, all right, let's see what you got here and then pretty soon it took off from there
you know, I I sort of followed it from the very very early days and
Over time it became everything that the boxy software was on my hardware
whatever hardware I wanted to run it on and that's I think what got me in the mindset of
Something like the nvidia shield something that would be a first class
Hardware plex player like the popcorn hours were but just one job run plex that leads us nicely up to 2015
which is when I purchased my
first nvidia shield
First nvidia shield that one is actually still in service in my lounge. It's still used today, you know five years later
It's still my primary
Device for playing back media. I mean given the timescales we've just talked about, you know, if we go from 2010
What was I using in 2010? Let's have a look
Media browser on top of windows media center
To 2015 where I buy the shield that's the same length of time
It's amazing. It's still in service
Well nvidia did the right thing by putting more cpu in it than it was necessary at the time way more
Yeah, yeah and putting fast disk in there and putting ethernet in there and wi-fi in there
they really just overbuilt it and then they must have had some sort of conversation with google about supporting it because
uh, it's still getting updates which
Not even tablets or phones get that on the android side. Well, I think it's because it was aimed as
As a media device second and a gaming device first
So they had to put beefy specs in there
They had to put the tegra gpu
And you know decent amount of ram and storage and all that and the fact that it played media at the beginning
Of android tv's existence was just sort of a nice to have
They wanted you to be able to play mobile games because it shipped with a a game controller a controller
Yeah, yeah, I forgot about that. What a joke because I never ever I mean, I probably played games on there
Three times ever four times ever in the entire lifetime of the thing. How many shields total? Have you bought over the years only two?
Ah, okay. Um, so the one that's in my lounge, uh is the original 2015 one
nvidia
Replaced the power supply for free last year when it crapped out on me
After like four years amazing. Absolutely amazing. That's great because it's like a proprietary power supply. So that's good. Yeah
It turns out it's exactly the same as the one that ships with the current shield. So if
If you ever need to know that now you do
I bought about a month ago the 2019 ai upscaling shield pro
Which is slightly smaller. It looks the same. I thought it was the same from looking at the pictures, but it's
25 smaller like physically
Um, but it does ai 4k upscaling which is pretty cool
but uh, I think the thing for me that's
Really meant that the shield has stuck around for so long is it changes as I do, right if I decide i'm using
Kodi this month. I can use kodi if i'm a plex guy this month
I could either load up the plex for kodi
Or I could run the native plex app or if I want to run iplayer
But it also supports all the big boys like amazon netflix hulu
hbo
yeah, and um
the platforms because it's android like when disney plus launched there was an app for it and
You can just rely on that stuff working where you can't
Necessarily when you roll it yourself if you want a great
4k netflix experience it's tricky if you roll something yourself
Whereas if you just use an app for that
it's not so bad and i'm really glad you mentioned the kodi thing because
I talk about plex a lot, but I heavily use kodi still especially especially when i'm on the road
And I don't want to bother with any kind of account signing crap when I don't have signal and i'm totally off grid
Kodi all the time all the way. I love kodi for that and the nvidia shield makes a great kodi box
And i've bought like four of these things because I bought two for the rv
And I bought two for the studio because I really like them and I wanted to outfit my tvs with them
That said for about the last
nine months
I have been experimenting brace yourself
With an apple tv on my primary television. I thought it was funny
We'd made it all the way through and you hadn't mentioned an apple tv. Well, they were just such jokes
For so long and I don't mean to be rude anybody who really likes the apple tv
But they were just they were so limited in their codec support their app ecosystem, etc, etc
That's changed with plex
And um, there is oh i'm drawing a blank on the name
But there's a kodi-like app for the apple tv. I think it might be called infuse
And those two apps really have changed the game the performance. I know this is going to sound crazy
Is slightly better on the apple tv than it is on the nvidia shield
I got no complaints really until I use something even faster
But where the apple tv kind of caught my attention and it was a total lark. I was like, well
Let's just plug it in and see because I had one
It's not even the latest app
It's like one generation behind and my dad got it for me for christmas one year and I just left it in the box
Like you know, I was happy with the nvidia shield like i'm like, well, I should try it right? I should try it
I didn't appreciate
Um, and this is kind of cliche the ecosystem
So when you have an apple tv
all of your ios devices
Become aware of its existence
And that turns my watch into a remote control without me having to fuss with it. That makes my home pods
a voice controlled playback
Speaker for my television that means with one tap I can send my television audio to my home pods
I can also just include the apple tv as part of an airplay destination with airplay 2 or whatever it is
And so all of the home pods and the apple tv can all have synchronized audio with just a tap and my phone
has a pull down remote that I just pull down the corner tap it and now I can pause rewind and when you have kids and
Other folks. I won't name names wife in the house that lose the remote constantly
Well, I mean the apple tv remote is like a bar of soap. Yes. Yes, and it's symmetrical
So you don't know which way up it is when you're holding it without looking at it
I hate the remote but I do like how easy it is to control the apple tv from all the other devices in the home
If I was all in on the android ecosystem, they may be different
But because we have ipads and iphones in the house and apple watches
It's exceptionally nice how all of that just works and then last but not least i've always preferred
Apple's airplay over the chromecast because airplay is over the land and it's just device to device no internet connection
No, nothing and that's always been my preferred method and the apple tv obviously supports that
I have not pulled any of my three other nvidia shields out and don't plan to replace them with apple tvs
I just like it for this one television and I don't recommend it to other people
I always tell people get the nvidia shield don't do like chris does
I think the remote's something that we often overlook and if I think back over the years
I mean we talked a little bit about the boxy remote the windows media center remotes
We should probably throw the harmony products in there at some point. I had to
You know at one point I was talking this through with katherine earlier. She said oh
Do you remember that time when you had like nine remotes on the coffee table?
And I was like, yeah, and we bought a harmony remote for like 300 pounds to solve that problem
And we used it for you know, a good three four five years something like that
You know a good three four five years something like that and it was only a couple of years ago
that I
Stopped using the harmony hub thing
Which kind of replaced that for me in a lot of ways
but when you start thinking about using the pie as a media center or anything that is you know
Self-built an angle that is often overlooked is the remote now
You could argue that your smartphone makes up for a lot of the shortcomings of not having a physical
Hardware, you know a decent quality remote but the uh, the brand new shield comes with a new toblerone
Triangular shaped remote thing. How do you like that? I love it
Can you buy just a remote because I don't need a whole new shield
But I like that idea of that new shaped remote 50
That i'll tell you the nice thing is because it's a triangle shape it kind of lies on its side
And so whenever you want to pick it up
It's already the right way up and it's got a little netflix button on it that you can download an app
I think called button remapper or something on the shield and you can remap the netflix button to plex so
Oh fantastic. I really don't need a netflix button. I don't I don't need that. No, no who does no
That's such a big deal for them too for those companies to get buttons on the remotes. I don't want any of it
I really don't know how i'll adapt to
A quote unquote smart tv when I do buy one i'm very very fortunate that all of my tvs are still dumb tvs
They're just displays
You've had some luck with smarter tvs and I wonder if maybe it's something I should
Reconsider well, I mean in one of the earlier episodes this year I talked about the uh, lg 4k tv
The oled that I bought and that has web os in it
And the the only time I found it useful is when I want to play
super high bit rate
you know
the best possible quality
because
When the playback client is built into the same
System as the screen
All the hdr stuff just works all the dolby pass-through stuff just works
It's no problem. Whereas when it goes through a receiver or through some kind of other audio device
You have to you have to think about the signal path and that's fine if it's me, but if it's wifey then
sometimes
Uh, I mean to be honest does she care if it's surround sound or stereo probably not but I care
Yeah, if she gets something started and you sit down and you realize 15 minutes into it that it's in stereo and not surround sound
It's like, okay. Well now I got to stop we got to switch
Yeah, yeah, and it's transcoding the audio from you know, dolby dts to you know stereo i'm like, what are you doing you animal?
Yeah, i've heard good things about web os, uh, and i've heard good things about the roku televisions. Yeah
There's three tvs in this house. One is the lg and the other two are the roku tcl 55 inch guys
And they're just great. I mean roku is a super solid option
It sort of became popular around the same sort of time as the shield
Purchase for me. So I never bought one same with the fire stick the fire tvs amazon make I know they're popular as well
Oh, I have tried those and nowhere near the shield. They're fine, but they're nowhere near the shield, but they're in the same
Price point as a chromecast and the difference with a chromecast is it's a cast
A cast obviously device whereas the fire tv is a remote kind of 10 foot interface type thing
Yeah, and the fire tv has a couple of nice options if you're traveling including it supports
Wi-fi captures in hotels
So that's why i've i've bought a couple of fire sticks
Over the years is that's just a really nice trick to have built into a portable media device like that
So the roku's I have some indirect experience because i've helped some family members get them going and i've always thought
they've seemed like pretty good devices and
It may be in a parallel universe. I would have gone the roku route
however, I think you and I both sort of
Want something that's high performance and performs sort of reliably when we're using the television and it's not that the roku's don't
But when you get into more complicated apps, you can kind of see the walls
You can see the edges of the holodeck if you will. A great example is this weekend formula one is back. Hooray
Turns out there is a kodi plugin for f1 tv. It's all legal. So far as i'm aware. I paid for the subscription
I'm using my api key and password and stuff. So
Maybe kodi isn't one of their sanctioned playback platforms, but whatever it worked and I thought cool
I'm going to install this plugin in kodi and off we go, you know
So just having that flexibility of being able to do whatever I want is why the shield wins for me
Yeah for me, I have to have a machine in the house that can run kodi on the television
that's like a mandatory because when I say house, I mean the rv obviously because
the problem with plex god bless it is
Over the years it's becoming more and more dependent on the online experience between the streaming offerings
But also if you set up multiple profiles so that way you could have like a dad profile a kid's profile
In order to select that user you have to have an internet connection
It has to be able to authenticate through their server and then you can then choose the user account
Which really stinks and kodi doesn't have any of that and yeah
It takes a little extra work to make a centralized database with kodi if you care about that kind of stuff
But it's so nice having that option there. Yeah, geez. I remember the advanced settings.xml
With a mysql database somewhere. Geez that's going back a bit
But you know, it's not really necessary when you just want to watch an episode of voyager. It's not really a big deal
So now you've heard how chris and I both arrived at completely separate
Lives at the same the same point. I'm super curious to know how you all arrived at the points that you're at with your media
Servers over the last decade or or more
Uh, so right in to self hosted dot show slash contact. Yeah, let us know your journey and um, what works for you
I'm, always still curious. I would consider changing it up
If somebody had a really good recommendation that came in and then report back on the show
So join the discord and chat about in there self-hosted dot show slash discord
You know, someone's going to write in with that kaleidoscope dvd changer. I remember that my dad had one of those
My dad also had laserdisc which that was a big deal. That was pretty awesome
My dad did a lot of the old versions of that. My dad had a
had a betamax player a vhs player a laserdisc player and then a blu-ray player, um, you know
And he's always kind of done the traditional route and when I got my own place
I just realized it did a very similar journey, but with just more modern stuff
I remember in the back of my dad's volvo when I was a kid. He had a six cd sony auto changer
And for the for six months, we had the same six cds and then he changed them all out
And we'd get tina terno replaced with diastrates and it was magical
Well, we really took that those six cd changers to the next level is when you can start burning your own cds
You know, oh, yeah. Yeah, who needed anything else?
And then bluetooth. Oh, I still hate bluetooth actually. It's the bane of my existence. It doesn't like you either. So that's fine
So anyway, thank you very much for listening everyone. I hope you enjoyed that little journey down memory lane
That was self-hosted 23